<html><title><body>Advice I wish I had heard when I switched to technology</title>

Carol Soares {divaloper}

It's been two and a half years since I moved from Public Relations to Front End Development, after many crises, doubts, anxieties and a lot of learning, I decided to talk a little about the things I would like to know before I migrated from the area.
1. Programming / Developing is not easy
Don't fall for the myth of Silicon Valley and the sensational headlines that you'll learn to code in a weekend, or that there are kids making millions from apps they made in a month. Things don't work out that well.
I usually say in all my career talks that everything is difficult. Imagine you spend the whole day cleaning, standing, carrying things, it doesn't seem easy, right? But this is the life of more than millions of day laborers around the world. And save someone's life? Be a researcher? Taking care of a nation? Well, none of this is easy, programming would not be a different area.
It is important to keep this in mind, because this way, you understand that the process to learn things, the mistakes we make and cycle to understand something, can be time consuming - it helps a lot to silence the impostor inside you that makes you angry with negative thoughts.
2. Without good bases, hypes cannot be sustained
Things in technology change too quickly. It's language, framework, methodology, everything happening at the same time and all the time. This can be very dangerous.
Of course it's important to keep up to date, but if you don't know the base well first, you end up building a sand-based building. Learn things that have not changed over time, which are still important today and that apply to any project (or most of them) and then update yourself - this makes the process of learning new things less painful, because the "thick" you already know and just stick to what really modernized.
3. A person to mentor you can clarify a lot
Mentoring is a process where another person who already works in the field helps you to understand some processes ranging from career to technical things. This greatly relieves the anxiety of knowing if we are doing it right and already understanding how the market really works.
You can mentor for free with the Training Center and / or identify yourself as a woman through Elas Programam (on facebook).
4. We are never ready
We tend to believe that something is always missing. A language, a skill, a language, a course etc. The reality is that this is pure sabotage. We will only understand what is really missing (and improve that) by putting what we know into play. It sounds hideous, I know, but we need to overcome the first fear in order to have new fears, and thus achieve more interesting things.
Don't be inconsistent, but watch out for that imposter there.
5. Make the community count
I wouldn't be the professional I am today if it weren't for the community. I learned a lot, met people, made friends, established professional contacts and grew a lot - in many ways. But I think it's important to remember that the community is a place of exchange and that it needs more people who understand this.
You don't necessarily need to become a meetup organizer, but do what you can to repay what helps you and so many others. If you were present at the event, go - and if you can't go, tell them beforehand, give that space to someone else. Help with coffee, at the end of the meetups offer to help organize the place, take new people, talk, make content etc. We will only be able to maintain the community culture if everyone does a little.
6. Everything is great ~ it depends ~
There is no better operating system / language / programmer. Seriously, it doesn't exist. It all depends on the conditions of that moment. Don't feel guilty about not mastering English, not having the high tech mac of the moment, not being able to attend the most expensive events.
Technology is still an extremely elitist-white-heteronormative medium and we know that not everyone has so many privileges. And everything is fine. Do your best with what you have available now.
7. Live beyond technology
Once in the community, you become their crazy person. It is in all events, it only has friendships in the middle, its free time is full of side projects, the contents you consume are all technical and hopefully it will arrive soon on black friday for you to remove that new gadget from the wish list.
Just writing this I remember how unbearable I was in the first months in the area
Imagine that a human being without grace is the person who only lives for a theme in life. Yeah, have different hobbies, go out with people / friendships outside the work circle. Have a life beyond IT. A good professional (from any area), is made up of plural experiences, which will make new points of view known, in order to find new solutions - think about it.
8. Thinking about the user is not just UX / UI
I could spend hours on this topic, but I believe the message is very clear. If you program without thinking about the user, you are a doctor who needs to operate on a leg but is thinking about the patient's stomach - this is irresponsible, inconsistent and does not solve any problem.
So let's study a little, exchange that naughty idea with the UX / UI person and try to understand this important part of our work, I swear it doesn't hurt.
9. Small steps, great achievements
I still remember my first Hello World, I stopped by my house to show how awesome I was for doing that. But I also remember that after a week, I was really upset because I advanced "little" in my studies.
The truth is that every new thing we do is an achievement. You didn't know it before, there are people who don't know it yet and why not celebrate it too? As important as the arrival is the way to it - I know it is mushy and motivational, but it is real.
10. Burn your idols
People will let you down. We are the sum of our experiences, creations, knowledge and a huge number of variables, the weather conditions and situations make us see things differently. So, lower your expectations, that genius can be an asshole as a human being, that person who fucks the articles where you learned everything can be an intolerant or unsympathetic. So as you wisely tweeted Miguel Soares, lower your expectations and burn your idols.
I hope this text has helped you in some way, if you have any other tips that you would like to give, put them in the comments, and if you liked it please don't forget the palminhas, until next time!
</body>
</html>